WiiScrubber NG - A program to make Nintendo Wii discs more compressable
===============================================================================

This program is a quick'n'dirty port of the famous "WiiScrubber" Windows
application to UNIX. Contrary to the Windows version, this one is command-line
only, and only has less features, but it will improve, eventually reaching the
same number of features of the Windows version.

The exact purpose of this program is, quoting the original one, to find out
where in the disc image the data is and change the rest of the data to 0xFF.
This allows compression programs to then compress the image and get a size
much smaller than without using the program.

This program has not been tested thoroughly, so I cannot guarantee proper
functionality. I've tried on quite a few files, checking the files that are
then extracted and all seems correct. But no 100% guarantees can be made that
the cleaned ISO will work. There is always the potential that Nintendo will
start checking for these sort of changes in a firmware update. Just be aware.

The WiiScrubber version this program is based on is 1.31 FINAL FINAL, hence the
"unusual" version this program has. The supported operating systems, at the
moment, are GNU/Linux and MacOS X.

This port has been possible as Dack, the original author of WiiScrubber, has
released the sources to his program.


===============================================================================
Installation
===============================================================================
If you are a MacOS X user, probably you will have downloaded the binaries,
which come with an installer, so the installation should be straightforward.

If you downloaded the sources, you will need to compile them. WiiScrubber NG
uses CMake, for easy portability, so you will need to get it from cmake.org. On
UNIX just do the following, from the directory where you unpacked the sources
into:

$ mkdir BUILD
$ cd BUILD
$ cmake .. (or cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr if you know what you are doing)
$ make
$ make install

You will also need a file containing the Wii common AES key. Such key is not
distributed with the program, as this would be illegal, so DO NOT EVEN TRY TO
ASK IT TO ME. See http://tinyurl.com/wiikeys for details on the cryptographic
leys used by the Wii. Once you have the correct key, plase it in a file named
"key.bin" in the same directory as the ISO files you will be working on. A
better solution will be implemented in the future.


===============================================================================
Usage
===============================================================================
WiiScrubber NG is a command-line program, so you will need to run it from a
terminal. To scrub an image you can do the following:

$ wiiscrubber -s mario.iso -o mario_scrubbed.iso

If you also want to create a "diff" file, which will enable you to recreate the
original ISO starting from a scrubbed one, you can use the "-d" option:

$ wiiscrubber -s mario.iso -o mario_scrubbed.iso -d mario_scrubbed.diff

If you have both the scrubbed and the diff files, you can recreate the original
ISO with:

$ wiiscrubber -u mario_scrubbed.iso -d mario_scrubbed.diff -o mario.iso

The other WiiScrubber original functions, like partitions manipulation, single
file extraction/replacement, etc., are not ported, yet.

To see a list of all possible options, try:

$ wiiscrubber -h

===============================================================================
Support
===============================================================================
If you want to contact me, you can do so by e-mail, writing to software at
sukkology dot net. Another means of support will be the forums of the Italian
ConsoleTribe forum, at http://wii.console-tribe.com.
If you need help, just open a thread in any section there, even in English.

Patches are welcome, too: put something like "[PATCH]" in the e-mail/topic
subject, so that I can easily spot them.

New releases will be announced on that forum.

If you want to donate to the project, do not do it, and donate to one of the
free Wii modchip projects out there, such as OpenWii, WiiFree or YAOSM.


===============================================================================
Disclaimer
===============================================================================
The original version of WiiScrubber comes with no precise licensing terms.
Although, it contains code from wiifuse, which is licensed under the GNU
General Public License version 2, thus WiiScrubber should use the same license.

This is why I am releasing WiiScrubber NG under the GNU General Public License
version 2, even though I did not write most of the code. See the COPYING file
for the precise license terms.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Also, please note that this program is not meant to be used to spread game
piracy, but rather to be instrument to make backups of your own precious
legally-bought games.
